---
layout: page
categories: instructor
---

###Prof. Dr. A.M.J.J. Bonvin

*Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands*
Alexandre Bonvin (1964) studied Chemistry at Lausanne University, Switzerland and obtained his PhD at Utrecht University in the Netherlands (1993). After two post-doc periods at Yale University (USA) and the ETHZ (CH) he joined Utrecht University in 1998 where he was appointed full professor of computational structural biology in 2009. In 2006, he received a prestigious VICI grant from the Dutch Research Council. He was director of chemical education from February 2009 until February 2012 and vice head of the Chemistry Department from 2010 until April 2012. He is participating to several EU projects, has coordinated the WeNMR e-Infrastructure project (http://www.wenmr.eu) and is leading the MoBrain Competence Center under EGI-Engage. His work has resulted in over 190 peer-reviewed publications.
**Research**
Research within the computational structural biology group focuses on the development of reliable bioinformatics and computational approaches to predict, model and dissect biomolecular interactions at atomic level. For this, bioinformatics data, structural information and available biochemical or biophysical experimental data are combined to drive the modelling process. This is implemented and further developed in the widely used HADDOCK software for the modelling of biomolecular complexes (http://bonvinlab.org/software).By following a holistic approach integrating various experimental information sources with computational structural biology methods we aim at obtaining a comprehensive description of the structural and dynamic landscape of complex biomolecular machines, adding the structural dimension to interaction networks and opening the route to systematic and genome-wide studies of biomolecular interactions. **Contact Address**
Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research<br>Science Faculty/Chemistry, Utrecht University<br>Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, the Netherlands<br>Email: 	a.m.j.j.bonvin@uu.nl<br>Web:	[http://www.uu.nl/staff/AMJJBonvin](http://www.uu.nl/staff/AMJJBonvin)  / [http://bonvinlab.org](http://bonvinlab.org)  **Selected peer-reviewed publications**1.	A Vangone and A.M.J.J. Bonvin. Contacts-based prediction of binding affinity in protein-protein complexes. eLife, 4, e07454 (2015).2.	G.C.P. van Zundert, A.S.J. Melquiond and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2015). Integrative modeling of biomolecular complexes: HADDOCKing with Cryo-EM data. Structure. 23, 949-960.3.	P.L. Kastritis, J.P.G.L.M Rodrigues, G.E. Folkers, R. Boelens and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2014). Proteins feel more than they see: Fine-tuning of binding affinity by properties of the non-interacting surface. J. Mol. Biol. 426, 2632-2652.4.	E. Karaca and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2011). A multi-domain flexible docking approach to deal with large conformational changes in the modeling of biomolecular complexes. Structure, 18, 555-565.5.	T. Schneider, Th. Kruse, R. Wimmer, I. Wiedemann, V. Sass, U. Pag, A. Jansen, A.K. Nielsen, P.H. Mygind, D.S. Raventós, S. Neve, B. Ravn, A.M.J.J. Bonvin, L. De Maria, L. Kamenova, H.-G. Sahl and H.-H. Kristensen (2010). Plectasin, a fungal defensin antibiotic peptide, targets the bacterial cell wall precursor Lipid II. Science, 328, 1168-1172.6.	P.L. Kastritis and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2010). Are scoring functions in protein-protein docking ready to predict interactomes? Clues from a novel binding affinity benchmark. J. Proteome Res., 9, 2216-2225.7.	S.J. de Vries, M. van Dijk and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2010). The HADDOCK web server for data-driven biomolecular docking. Nature Protocols, 5, 883-897.8.	S. de Vries and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2008). How proteins get in touch: Interface prediction in the study of biomolecular complexes. Curr. Pept. and Prot. Research 9, 394-406.9.	I. Gelis, A.M.J.J. Bonvin, D. Keramisanou, A. Economou and C.G. Kalodimos (2007). Signal sequence recognition by the translocase motor SecA studied by NMR. Cell, 131, 756-769.10.	C. Dominguez, R. Boelens and A.M.J.J. Bonvin (2003). HADDOCK: A protein-protein docking approach based on biochemical or biophysical information. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 1731-1737.